[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: One
would think that it would be
the deepest desire of a doctor
to know with certainty what ails
the patient sitting
in front of them,
but our institutions have been
slow to adopt the help of those
who can see.
But that's changing.
Wendie Colter is
at the leading edge
of bringing medical intuition
into the field of medicine.
And such a major dharma to
carry, but you're the person.
Thank you so much.
It's good to have
you back again.
>> WENDIE COLTER: Thank you so
much for having me back, Regina.
It's such a pleasure.
>> REGINA: So last
time you were here,
I was kind of waving the
flag that if you're intuitive
and sensitive-- even if
you don't know you're that
intuitive, but
sensitive, caring person,
the type of person that
likes to give care to others,
this is an actual profession
that can be developed now
because of people like you.
You're doing an incredible job
of making this a legit field
for people to take up as a
career path, so thank you again.
So let's go ahead
and go on, start
talking about what's going
on since we last talked.
First of all, maybe
just give a little bit
of historical background
for those who don't already
know you, of you.
>> COLTER: Of me?
OK.
[LAUGHS] Well, I've
been a medical intuitive
for more than 20 years
now as a professional,
and I've been
teaching my programs
to health care professionals
for about 15 years now.
And it's been so gratifying
to see the field grow--
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COLTER: --and the interest
from the integrative medical
field also grow.
One of the things
that I also do is
I teach at integrative
centers around the country,
so the Academy of Integrative
Health and Medicine,
Andrew Weil Center, and others.
It's been so gratifying to
actually lecture and teach
about this skill to fourth year
medical students and residents
and integrative health care
professionals, doctors,
and nurses.
I mean, it's really kind of an
exploding field, I would say.
>> REGINA: That, to me, is so
exciting to hear because up till
now, it's been a crapshoot.
You know?
And it depends on
what kind of mood
your doctor's in, what kind
of HMO they're working with,
whether they get more than
seven minutes with you.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: You know?
And then you've got
your standard diagnosis,
your standard drugs
that are pasted over it.
This is not serving
humanity any longer.
The system is broken.
>> COLTER: Well, you know,
the clinicians, the doctors,
the nurses, et cetera, that are
drawn to this or want to work
with medical intuitives, and
there's more and more now,
they understand the
broken system, Regina,
and they understand it on a
personal level because they
don't have enough time
with their patients.
They're under so much pressure.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COLTER: And they can't really
do the art of medicine when
you're seven minutes
with a patient.
Even 15.
It's not enough.
So this is really a great
place for medical intuition
to kind of fill that gap.
>> REGINA: And the other thing
that's fabulous about medical
intuition is that oftentimes
when people are stuck,
doctors are stuck,
and they're like,
this isn't making any sense
from presenting symptoms,
that's where a medical intuitive
can come in and really--
and we're going to talk about
the really deep connection
of spirit, mind, and matter a
little bit later in the show,
but that's where you can
come in and reflect something
of a deeper, more
complex nature to them.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
Well, absolutely.
And I've been
working with doctors,
you know, under the table,
like in the background,
and so have many, many medical
intuitives for decades.
>> REGINA: You mean they don't
want their establishments
to know they're--
>> COLTER: No.
>> REGINA: --they're sending
them kind of on the sly to you?
>> COLTER: Yeah.
We get a lot of referrals.
And while there are a couple
of studies I can talk about,
the first one was a study
from 2020 that was published
in the "Journal of Integrative
and Complementary Medicine,"
and that was with the
graduates of my program and 67
participants from the community.
And the participants rated
the medical intuitives
as 94% accurate in
intuiting the location
and evaluating their health
issue, their primary health
issue with absolutely
no information up front.
>> REGINA: That's crazy, 94%.
>> COLTER: Yeah,
94% accuracy there.
And we also saw 98%
accuracy in their ability
to pinpoint the historical life
experience that led or could
have led to the health issue.
And I know you want
to get into that,
so I wanted to
bring that forward.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COLTER: We also,
from that study,
received 94% consistency
with the participants' known
diagnosis.
And again, this was
a blinded study.
The medical intuitive
had no prior knowledge.
And that final
piece of information
made all the doctors
who look at that kind
of sit up and take notice.
It's like, well, how
are they doing that?
>> REGINA: Yeah.
So did you find that,
generally speaking,
the nurses might have
been more open to taking
your course than, say,
the MDs, or is it now
starting-- is that shifting?
>> COLTER: Oh, nurses have
always been on the leading edge
with this.
There's over 30
years of research
from the nursing sector
on intuition in nursing.
It's fascinating stuff.
And yes, nurses, but now
we're getting a lot of MDs
through the program,
which is fantastic,
because they get very excited
about how they can use that
directly with their patients.
>> REGINA: We have to start
using higher knowledge.
>> COLTER: We have to start.
Perfectly said.
We're also getting a lot of
complementary and alternative
licensed practitioners such as
acupuncturists, chiropractors.
>> REGINA: Excellent.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
So it's really, it's
just a growing field.
>> REGINA: This is, to me,
this is really a bright star
on the horizon, and
it's actually here--
>> COLTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: --of what's
going on in the world.
Too often, we look at
everything that's not working,
but this is actually
working and growing.
I love it.
>> COLTER: It is
working and growing.
One other survey
that was done, which
has now added to
the literature, is
we were talking about
medical intuitives who
work with doctors.
And again, that has
been so clandestine.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> COLTER: And by the way,
that goes back over 200 years,
you know?
It's like there have always
been quiet consultations taking
place.
>> REGINA: Well, even with the
world of homeopathy and doctors,
I mean, it used to be
they could collaborate.
Now, you know, it's
considered superstition.
>> COLTER: Oh, this
whole thing is--
>> REGINA: It's just ridiculous.
>> COLTER: It needs to
come out of the shadows.
>> REGINA: Yeah, it does.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
Some of the data that
we gathered, and this
is from the National
Organization for Medical
Intuition, our
very first survey,
we wanted to find out what
medical intuitives were
doing out there.
Were they working with doctors?
Were they doing stand alone?
What kind of intuition
did they use?
You know, a whole
bunch of questions.
And we found that
82% assist directly
licensed medical professionals
with medical intuition.
82% of professional medical
intuitives in the US.
Who knew?
>> REGINA: That's amazing.
>> COLTER: Who knew?
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COLTER: And 86% said
they receive referrals.
That number didn't surprise
me, but I had no idea
we were in the 80%--
>> REGINA: Yeah.
I wouldn't have guessed it.
>> COLTER: And I would
guess it's more now.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: You know, you
were talking about nurses
and intuition and studies
that have been done
on their intuition, and there
is just a tragic story that
involved my own mother.
My mother, sister,
niece, they were all
in-- they were all nurses.
And my mother-- a person had
been through a procedure.
They were fine.
But they were coming
out, they were coming out
from under anesthesia,
and the doctor
said, give them orange juice.
And so she attempted
to give the patient
a little bit of orange
juice, and the patient
was not responding.
My mother could see
it wasn't right.
Something was wrong here.
They weren't maybe
ready to swallow.
Maybe that mechanism
wasn't ready yet
from coming out from
under anesthesia.
I don't know.
I don't remember.
This was a long time ago.
But he said, I said feed
him that orange juice,
and the man drowned in the
equivalent of a tablespoon
of orange juice.
My mother never got over it--
>> COLTER: How
could she, though?
>> REGINA: --because
she was so--
of her generation, the
quiet generation, afraid
of authority--
>> COLTER: Yes.
>> REGINA: --and afraid to be
fired for not just doing what
she was told.
That could never
happen in your world.
>> COLTER: You know, [CHUCKLES],,
you're talking really about
a still existing hierarchy in
the medical world that I'm aware
of, and that the medical
intuitive nurses that gravitate
to my program who've used their
intuition in the hospitals,
in the clinics, at bedside
in the ICU, in the ER,
they have to be very careful
about what they say to whom.
And what's really fun about this
is the graduates of my program
who work at the
VA or at whatever,
they are open with
their doctors about what
they do, more and more of them.
And more and more of them
are coming back with stories
saying, well, my doctor just,
you know, he pulls me aside
and he says, what about this?
>> REGINA: Oh, I love it.
>> COLTER: And like, yeah.
>> REGINA: So it's
getting better?
>> COLTER: It's getting better.
And we want to see
it in hospitals.
We want medical intuitives on
every floor of every clinic.
And you have that, and then
we have a medical system
that can really benefit the
patients, benefit the doctors.
>> REGINA: Be much more
efficient in getting
to the problem.
>> COLTER: Well, I think so.
>> REGINA: And that gets us to
the other part of this story,
because we didn't talk
about this last time.
It's so obvious.
In our audience, most
everyone watching this show
believes that there is a
spirit, mind, body connection
but is often trying to
convince others in their lives
to look into this, acknowledge
it, trust it, maybe even
get some help from
someone like yourself,
and they just don't
want to go there.
They're still resistant to it.
But medical intuitive
work can really
start proving to the public
where the source of disease
starts.
And so I would love it
if you would tell me
a few stories of people that
were kind of shocked where they
came in with, you know, my
toe's swollen or whatever,
and then you traced it
back, traced it back,
and were just shocked at
the origin of a condition.
>> COLTER: Well, I'll
say this, Regina.
It's always surprising and often
shocking because so much of this
comes from traumatic life
experiences that might not
be recognized as traumatic.
But to the body's physiology and
the body's awareness, they are.
One wonderful gentleman
I read-- and you know,
he was shocked, but not
because it was shocking.
He was shocked at
the origin of it--
he was dealing with
a prostate issue.
And his numbers were going up,
and he was worried about it.
And he called me and he
said, what can you see?
And I pinpointed--
I won't talk about the physical
stuff, just the mind-body stuff.
I pinpointed a time
in his life where
he was having to decide
between who to marry.
[LAUGHS] OK?
>> REGINA: Interesting.
>> COLTER: Who can I marry?
You know?
And there were two women that
he was really interested in,
and he married one and
regretted it ever since.
And it was in the throes of a
divorce when he came to see me.
And I work with
higher self, and I
ask higher self to show
me where the origins are.
And oddly, the origins of his
issue were in that moment early,
early on when he was trying to
make this interesting decision
for the rest of his life.
>> REGINA: And how did
this play out in his body?
>> COLTER: How it played out in
his body had to do with how he
identified himself
as a man, as a male.
Now, I don't want to get
too far into the details
because I don't want
to divulge, but he
had some interesting identity
about what it means to be a man
and how to take
care of a family,
and that all played
into an imbalance
in the prostate, which
is the male gland, right?
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COLTER: And there was a
really interesting connection
for him to notice that his body
was telling him that his manhood
wasn't caught up in what
he thought it was caught up
in, about being responsible,
taking care of and overextending
himself, and not taking
care of his own self care,
which really kind of becomes the
bottom line for almost everyone.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> COLTER: And that was an
interesting thing to look at.
>> REGINA: Well, so now
he has this information.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: What does
that do for him?
How is he able to utilize that
to help strengthen his prostate?
>> COLTER: Well, a lot of the
recommendations that come from
higher self and from the body--
certainly, there are
physical recommendations
that come from the body
about things that might
help balance the prostate.
And for the emotional
part for him,
it was validating for
him really to hear
that that struggle that he had
40 years ago actually played out
in a later life imbalance that
really had its root there.
And for him, it made him really
think about what was important
for him going forward.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> COLTER: How could he live
his life to honor his own sense
of maleness, manhood, what it
means to be a responsible man,
and what it means to take care
of yourself as a responsible
man?
Which I thought was really
fascinating for me--
>> REGINA: Oh, I love it.
>> COLTER: --because we talk
about women's self-care all
the time.
It's like, wow, that's
men's self-care.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
OK, we love stories,
OK, because all of us
like to kind of see
ourselves and feel ourselves
in the experiences of others.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And we'll get back
to some stats on all later.
But I think people have
gotten the idea here--
and we're going to get into the
upcoming study, or the study
that's already
underway, actually.
And so give us another
example of someone who was--
even you were surprised,
like, wow, that's fascinating.
It's fascinating how this thread
from the soul works on through.
>> COLTER: It's every time.
Most of the time, Regina--
I'm going to answer this a
little bit more generally,
though--
most of-- all of the time when I
look at life history, the higher
self will take me back
to a moment in time
that was like a fork in the
road almost energetically,
where the mind and body were not
in sync, and that the imbalance
grew from there.
And we don't think about early
life as-- well, actually,
there's a lot of
research on this--
>> REGINA: Yes.
Yeah.
>> COLTER: --that early life
trauma can create these later
life health issues.
So I want to get back to
that, what happened then.
And I'll give you
kind of a composite
because this shows up a lot in--
>> REGINA: OK.
>> COLTER: --women's lives and
women's readings, and that is,
from an early age, being made
to, in the family dynamic,
given a ton of
responsibility too young.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>> COLTER: And that kind
of thing sets up a pattern
of codependency, of bad
relationships where the woman is
always the one on the
serving end, so to speak.
I mean, I see this over
and over in readings.
And you know, everybody's
story is unique, of course,
but the theme seems to be there.
And it's really
intriguing me because, oh,
I got a whole other book
about this, you know?
It's like, what are the
themes in people's lives
that can really lead to a really
challenging health imbalance?
That seems to be one where,
you know, they were--
>> REGINA: Too much
responsibility at too young
an age.
Well, this leads me to
another question, then.
So when I was a kid,
and probably when
you were a kid too, you
got to go out and play
with your friends,
ride your bike,
and you come in at dinner time
or when the sun went down,
depending on what
time of year it was.
And you had a lot of free
time to be and to play
and to be outdoors and
to express yourself
among your peers.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: So now we get to
generations of kids who are
overprotected, and
they are definitely--
I think they have too
much responsibility
on their shoulders in terms
of insisting that they take
on one kind of lesson
after another, for example,
after school, and
their free time
seems to be narrower and
narrower as time goes on here.
What are you seeing with that in
terms of maybe the young people
or kids from these
generations now,
this newer generation that
has been overcommitted
to doing too many things?
It worries me.
Tell me what you're
seeing in their bodies,
because parents
need to know this.
>> COLTER: You
know, what I see--
I don't do a lot
of minors reading.
I do some.
Well, that's not really true.
I probably do more than I think
I do, [LAUGHS],, because parents
come to me to read their
kids if their child is
having some issues.
>> REGINA: And some of these
kids are teenagers and even
in their 20s by now.
>> COLTER: Exactly.
And I can read for a
parent up to age 18
because then once they're an
adult, that's 18 and beyond,
they would have to
have their own reading.
But for minors, I see a lot
of burden, psychic burden,
emotional burden for them.
And not only are
they booked up to get
good grades and the whole
nine yards, those AP
classes, everything--
I mean, there's nothing wrong
with education, but boy,
does it go over--
it kind of goes overboard.
And you know, everybody's
intentions are good,
but the result is
the same result
that I see in anyone's body
when it comes to stress,
emotional burden, overwork--
you name it.
>> REGINA: But it's starting
in kids and teenagers.
>> COLTER: Starting in kids.
Starting in kids.
>> REGINA: So what do you see--
if there's kind of a common
denominator to the type of
conditions you're seeing from
people who are overburdened,
what would that look like
in young people who
aren't toxic yet, per se?
>> COLTER: Well, some are.
>> REGINA: Well, some are.
Yeah.
>> COLTER: Kind of not
knowing their own self.
Third chakra's not
really being developed.
That's the self
identity, self awareness.
Some kids are
highly that, highly
self aware if they've
been nurtured that way,
and some kids don't know
up from down when it
comes to their own mind.
>> REGINA: Third chakras are
playing out in the digestive
system.
>> COLTER: Exactly.
Digestive system issues.
>> REGINA: Lots of
allergies to food, sleep.
>> COLTER: Sleep issues.
Just not having fun
issues, not feeling
like they've had time
to really assimilate.
And there you go,
digestion again.
A lot of things--
you know, generally
speaking with older folks,
you see back issues and
muscular stuff, and kids,
you don't necessarily see that
unless there's a condition.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COLTER: But more and more,
I do see conditions in children
that people are coming to me to
say they've had this diagnosis
or that diagnosis that's way,
way too young for that kind
of thing.
>> REGINA: And so you just
brought something up a moment
ago, which is their
lives are lacking joy.
And is there-- what are the
classes of chronic conditions
that are associated with a
life with no joy or little joy?
>> COLTER: Well, you're asking
a really interesting question,
and I would have to
answer it one way,
and then I'll answer it.
>> REGINA: That's fine.
>> COLTER: The first way I
answer it is that there's no one
way things manifest.
That's my philosophy.
There are some people
that say this equals that.
So if there's no joy,
then there's this issue.
I don't see things that way,
and that's been my philosophy
from the beginning because
if you do that, then you're
using that kind of
cookie cutter, which
medicine is full of now anyway.
You don't need more of that.
But what I do see is
that, on a broad scale,
if there's a lack of joy,
then there's a lack of ability
to heal, frankly.
>> REGINA: OK.
Slow healing process.
>> COLTER: Often without
question in almost every area.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COLTER: Joy, self
expression, self awareness,
just feeling like you matter--
you know, these are all really--
I mean, it sounds so,
almost so simplistic,
but energetically
it is profound.
>> REGINA: So what
about ancestral issues?
How often does-- yeah.
Let's--
>> COLTER: Always.
>> REGINA: Because this
is coming from a soul.
A soul is incarnated
into a family.
And it's not that we've
just brought DNA forward,
we've brought their feelings
and beliefs forward,
so we all know this.
So what is your experience when
you're dealing with clients
and ancestral patterns?
>> COLTER: Well, I always
look at the genetics
and the epigenetics,
meaning-- genetic means,
what are the chromosomes
doing or not doing?
Epigenetics is, what came down
the family line that could
be influencing their health?
>> REGINA: And does that usually
show up in your readings?
You'll see it?
>> COLTER: If I
look for it, sure.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> COLTER: Or if there's
a reason to look for it,
absolutely.
It's part of the process.
We don't want to leave any stone
unturned, to put it that way.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
And so within a
family, for example,
you might see clusters
of the same kind
of condition manifesting.
>> COLTER: Sure.
>> REGINA: Do you have an
example of that, a family that--
>> COLTER: Oh, well--
>> REGINA: I'm sure
you have plenty, but.
>> COLTER: --depression can
come down the family line.
A lot of times, the mental
acuity, the mental ability
to stay on top of things like
melancholy, depression, things
like that, or
anxiousness, things
like that, that can
be very hereditary,
so sometimes that
does come down.
Very often, what I'll see is
an alcoholic parent or stress
in that family, a lot
of fractious energy
that can really play
havoc with people's, gosh,
every system in their bodies,
particularly when they're
children.
So as we get older, we tend
to kind of live our lives,
and we do our therapy,
and we have our self care,
and we do all this stuff.
We think, well, that
was in the past.
When it comes to the body,
it's never in the past
if it hasn't been resolved.
That's the main thing I think
medical intuition can offer.
And if you want to
solve the mystery,
then talk to a qualified
medical intuitive
can help you solve the mystery
of where these things come from.
>> REGINA: What about cancer?
Because so many people are
afraid, oh, I've got this gene,
I'm going to develop cancer.
That gene's in my family.
And well, Angelina Jolie gave
a lot of power to that story,
honestly.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
It's not--
>> REGINA: So let's
talk about it.
>> COLTER: My perspective is
that people walk around with all
kinds of genetic material,
and sometimes it manifests
and sometimes it doesn't.
So everyone has this
unique story about that.
And it drives me a little
crazy, honestly, Regina,
because it is so personal.
Not every piece of DNA
on the genetic test
is going to manifest.
But it might set up
an area of weakness
in the structure, the energetic
structure, which is worth
looking at and taking steps.
>> REGINA: And also, we all
have cancer cells in our bodies.
We have so many
potentials lying there.
The notion that
you learn that you
have this particular
genetic effect in your body,
like Angelina Jolie and
the breast cancer gene,
and took pro action--
was proactive and had her
breasts removed and replaced
and everything, which I
really was very concerned
about that message.
>> COLTER: I don't
agree with that message,
but I understand
where it comes from.
And it comes from most places--
it comes from the place that
most imbalance comes from,
and that is fear.
It comes from fear.
Fear energy is
incredibly destructive.
So you asked about cancer.
Cancer is highly chaotic in
the body, so I would suggest--
and this is the topic of
a new book I'm writing--
look to see where the
chaos is in your life,
and look to mitigate that
because you can internalize it
very easily.
And women do this all
the time, more so in--
societally, we're the ones
that bear the burdens.
Well, that burden
will come back.
Those chickens do
come home sometimes,
and you really
should watch that.
Everybody.
>> REGINA: No, that is true.
You know, at the
time, and I wondered--
OK, this is just my
personal thought on it--
that it really stirred
the women of the world up
and created grave
anxiety and concern when
she made that move because
one of the interesting things
about her character,
it seems, is
she is hands down a risk taker.
She paints outside the box.
She doesn't appear to be
someone that lives in fear.
So then you have to
get down to the notion,
was it just an upgrade?
Using that excuse.
In which case, all these
people feared for nothing.
So you get these
messages, and you really
have to look at who
the messenger is
and what might be
going on there, too.
But it stirred a
lot of people up.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
And she's not the only one.
There are a lot having these
surgeries all the time.
And I'm not one to say no
to that if that makes sense
and it makes someone--
if it lessens a
fear response, sure.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COLTER: Our bodies and
our energy systems react
to our minds and our emotions.
So find those thoughts
that feel good.
And if it feels good to do
that, who are we to say no?
[LAUGHS]
>> REGINA: Yeah, that's fine.
And I mean, if a
person wants to enhance
what they feel the aesthetics of
their bodies are, yeah, do it.
That's one's personal decision.
But I was just concerned
that maybe that's
what it was but it was being
heralded as something else that
caused a lot of disturbance
and fear in people,
and we won't know
the answer to that.
Anyway, it's out there,
and I like the fact
that you're answering to that.
I appreciate that.
>> COLTER: And I
take every client--
every reading I do is
individual to the client.
It's never a one and
done for everyone.
Again, that's what I
wave my flag against.
That personalized health care,
I can't think of anything
better than looking
in your physiology,
looking in your energy
system, and saying,
this is what's personal to you.
And it has nothing to
do with anybody else.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
And because some people are
wired pretty strangely--
I mean, there are people--
and even the intuitive
is like, what?
I know when people have
tried to read me, it's like,
what is going on here?
You don't even
live in your body.
So you get strange folks
coming through, too,
and you have to try to
fit that overlay in.
And from my understanding,
as the Earth pop
continues populating, we're
getting stranger and stranger
beings.
>> COLTER: Hey, you know--
[LAUGHTER]
--if you're in a body, there's
a reason to be in a body.
[LAUGHTER]
>> REGINA: We'll figure
out the other overlay.
And so, I mean, in
that sense, whether you
live inside, spirit wise,
inside or just loosely
attached to the body, you
still have the same issues
you're contending with.
>> COLTER: Well, you got a body.
>> REGINA: You got a body.
You had parents.
You have the imprints
from ancestors.
>> COLTER: You have past lives.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Because a lot of people
watching this will say,
yeah, I don't really live
in my body much either,
so that's why I brought that up.
>> COLTER: Well, I can tell
you that living in your body is
something your
body really likes.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Well, have to negotiate
that one next time down--
next time down the road.
Another thing is the notion--
I mean, the whole epidemic
of digestive issues
across the board.
>> COLTER: Across the board.
>> REGINA: OK.
So there has to be some
common theme there.
>> COLTER: [LAUGHS] I love that
you're asking me about common
themes.
Well, what I see-
>> REGINA: Just so most people
can see themselves in the story
here and there.
Yeah.
>> COLTER: Of course.
Stress, oh, my god.
Stress is probably
the number one
messer-upper of
digestive systems,
and stress is a big word.
It's from the tiniest stress
to the massive stress.
But our bodies are--
here's what I've learned.
Our bodies have this
funny dual nature.
They're both fragile and highly
resilient at the same time.
It's really interesting.
And there comes a point where
a balance can get tipped.
When that balance
gets tipped, you
got to go forensically
back and see what--
>> REGINA: Tipped it.
>> COLTER: --would
have tipped it.
And why not go the other way?
>> REGINA: Yeah.
So I mean, if there are
some practical solutions
to not eat food when
you're wound up,
maybe that's a good
place to start.
>> COLTER: [LAUGHS]
>> REGINA: And when
you're wound up,
maybe not throw down a triple
latte with all that acid.
>> COLTER: Right.
>> REGINA: You know?
There have to be some kind
of common sorts of advice
one can have.
We were talking at lunch
with a lovely woman
here at Gaia who said, if
you just take 10 breaths--
she's a nutritionist-- 10
breaths before you eat,
just calm yourself so your
body can accept the food--
OK, there's a simple one.
>> COLTER: Well, what I
see is the vagus nerve.
>> REGINA: Talk about that,
because that's becoming more
known.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
The vagus nerve is
a cranial nerve,
meaning it comes from
the back of the head
and goes all the way
down through the body,
and it hits almost--
it attaches to almost every
organ system in the body.
It's phenomenal.
>> REGINA: It's funny because
not much has been spoken of it
until the last 10, 20 years.
>> COLTER: Yes, exactly.
And the vagus nerve's
ability to do its job
and send good impulses
to your intestines,
for example, or your
heart or your lungs
has to do with your stress
level, plain and simple.
Now again, I'm not a
health care practitioner,
so I'm just telling
you what I've seen.
And I will always look
at the vagus nerve
when I-- as well as
the digestive system.
>> REGINA: When you're
looking at a person,
how does that show up to you?
>> COLTER: In any
possible visual.
Sometimes I see it like-- you
know how a violin string gets
really, really tightly wound?
It's going to have to snap.
Sometimes it looks like that.
Sometimes it looks like it's
just zapping all the time.
Sometimes it looks like
it's not doing anything.
So there's a number of
ways it can show up,
but the information is what
I'm asking for, regardless of--
>> REGINA: What it's affecting.
>> COLTER: Yeah,
what is it affecting?
And very often, I see the lungs,
the heart, the digestive system
just not working properly
because there's so much stress
that is being projected through
the nervous system, particularly
the vagus nerve.
>> REGINA: And you said
it starts at the base
of the cranium?
>> COLTER: It's the
base of the cranium.
It's a cranial nerve.
And they go down
through the body,
and all over, and into the head
as well-- mostly in the head.
But the vagus nerve
is so important.
And so these breathing
techniques and what you eat
and how you eat and
what your lifestyle is,
these are really
important factors,
and everybody gets to make
the choice themselves.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COLTER: I can tell you, if
you want kind of a broad stroke,
when people have digestive
issues and they come to me,
broad stroke wise,
generally speaking,
I'm going to ask
the higher self,
how are they metabolizing
gluten, dairy, and white sugar?
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> COLTER: Fine white sugar.
And you know, intuitively--
I'll just tell you a
little anecdote here--
I've been working with my higher
self since I was a kid, right?
And so intuitively, in
my 20s, my body went, OK,
that's it for white sugar.
No more.
I'm like, what?
What?
>> REGINA: No.
No, no.
Please.
>> COLTER: Please.
>> REGINA: Let's negotiate.
[LAUGHTER]
>> COLTER: There
was no negotiation.
And I started researching,
and I read some great books--
you know, "Sugar Blues"--
>> REGINA: That
was a great book.
>> COLTER: --a bunch
of other things.
I'm like, this is
not from my body.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>> COLTER: And I started making
my own brownies and things with
honey and whatever-- things
that my body could assimilate.
And I got off gluten
almost immediately
after that, and dairy.
And it was just things that
my higher self said, yeah,
I think your body would
probably appreciate it
if you didn't eat that.
And that's-- you know, if I
can put a point on all of this,
it's working with a medical
intuitive who can pinpoint these
things for you--
>> REGINA: Really important.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Because sometimes you
don't even have to give it up,
but maybe you have
a different version.
Like, for example,
when I'm in Europe--
I spend a fair amount
of time in England--
well, in the British
Isles-- and I
find that the dairy
doesn't seem to bother me.
And even the grain
doesn't bother me
because it's very low gluten
compared to our red wheat.
>> COLTER: Yes.
Well, and we're talking
about the agribusiness that
goes on here.
>> REGINA: And everything
that's put on it.
Absolutely.
>> COLTER: It's--
>> REGINA: I mean, and that--
and so what I started doing,
because I like to bake-- you
know, I cook and I bake--
is I started buying my flour,
and even bringing it back
in bags, organic flour from--
>> COLTER: Good for you.
>> REGINA: --yeah, from Britain,
and I'll even order it online.
And it does seem to
make a difference,
so I don't have to give
up my guilty pleasure.
[LAUGHTER]
Sugar's another issue still.
But even like the A2
milk, the A2 molecule
in the milk from the
Jersey cows there
is very different in how
our body is affected by it.
>> COLTER: We've got
a lot to learn here.
But you know, these are the
kinds of things that-- yeah,
there are some people who can
eat baloney sandwiches on white
bread every day and
live to 102, so really--
and ideally, we want to
look to see how it's working
for everybody individually.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
So you can help with that.
No, this is exciting.
Let's get to the study
that's underway now
because you're
really at the lead
of these particular studies.
I mean, you've taken this upon
yourself as your life's work,
so you're speaking
with authority on this.
>> COLTER: Oh, thank you.
I appreciate hearing that.
Yes, so this study has been a
year in the making, [LAUGHS],,
I will say, and
it's underway now.
So excited.
And we have four or
five of my graduates--
we're still figuring
out how many--
again, and a whole
cohort of integrative
and conventional
medicine doctors
who have brought
in their patients.
So it's medical intuitives,
doctors, and their patients
in one session.
This has never been done before.
>> REGINA: This is incredible.
>> COLTER: Never
been studied before.
And we thought,
what a great model.
>> REGINA: Oh, it's
a wonderful model.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: So tell us
how it's structured,
what you're starting
to see, and so forth.
>> COLTER: Well, the study
is going to start very soon,
but we're getting all
the stuff together now.
And again, we'll have
about five doctors,
and each doctor will
have five to 10 patients,
so we may have more.
I think it'll be a total
of 40 patients altogether.
They're going to have a
follow-up-- because these
are patients that have
issues that haven't resolved,
or issues that have been
impossible to diagnose.
>> REGINA: So do we start
with what Western medicine
or allopathic medicines toolkit
says they think is going on?
>> COLTER: Yep.
>> REGINA: OK, excellent.
>> COLTER: So we start there.
So the doctor and the patient
will have an initial--
basically a follow-up consult
because these are long term
patients of these doctors,
and everything they've tried
isn't working.
That kind of thing.
So they have a consult, and
then they measure that consult.
When you work--
I'm working with a wonderful
Institute of Noetic Science.
These people know
their research,
so everything is
very structured.
It's wonderful.
So every step of
the way is measured.
So they have that, the
doctor and the patient,
and then they together
have a consult
with a medical intuitive.
And it's a one
hour consult, which
is not standard usual operating
procedure in health care.
It's usually 15 to 20
minutes, if you're lucky.
Here, we're going
to do an hour--
45 minutes with the medical
intuitive, the doctor,
and the patient,
and then 15 minutes
with the medical
intuitive and the doctor.
And we've been testing
out the protocol
a little bit before
the study gets going,
and we found that the
doctors are like, well,
we need more time with
the medical intuitive.
I'm like, yes, of course you do.
We know you do.
[LAUGHS]
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
But that's a good start.
>> COLTER: It's a great start.
>> REGINA: So with this,
under these conditions,
will the intuitive be able to,
or are they encouraged to go
so far back as to the seed, the
mind-body ancestral whatever
comes up?
>> COLTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And these doctors
have all agreed that this is
worth investigating, so
they're there voluntarily.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: They want to learn.
>> COLTER: They want to learn.
And they're intrigued by it.
You know, when I've
worked with doctors,
and when medical intuitives
work with doctors, generally
speaking, it's about what's
happening in the here and now--
the physiology, what can
they take, what procedures,
what tests.
That's really their focus.
However, we wanted to
do this study, Regina,
because we wanted them to hear
the genesis of these issues
from the life
history perspective.
If they interview their patient
or they intake their patient,
patients don't
generally tell them
what happened when they
were five years old.
They tell them when the ache
and pain started or whatever.
So this is new
information for them.
And we wanted to
do it because we
wanted to expand their
understanding of mind, body,
and spirit.
>> REGINA: I love it.
>> COLTER: Isn't that great?
It means it's happening finally.
>> COLTER: Finally.
>> REGINA: You know?
>> COLTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And with a lot
of hard work on your part
and the others.
So The Practical Path, that's
the name of your school.
>> COLTER: Yes.
>> REGINA: Let's talk about that
for a bit in terms of what it
offers, the training, how long
it takes, and is anybody--
I mean, if someone says, oh,
my god, I'd love to do that,
are there some people that just
aren't really naturally aligned
with it, or does
everyone, if they love it,
ultimately kind of
find their talent?
>> COLTER: Well, in terms of
medical intuition as a field,
anyone and everyone who is
interested in it can do it.
It's kind of a calling, really.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>> COLTER: And there are
a lot of places to learn.
My school in particular, I
teach health care professionals,
and that's a broad sweep--
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> COLTER: --health
coaches, massage therapists,
nutritionists, all the
way to medical doctors.
So anyone within
that field can--
or those fields can
come and they qualify.
And it's a learning curve.
[LAUGHS]
>> REGINA: Yes, talk
about how it starts,
because a lot of
people must think, oh,
I don't have any
intuitive capacities.
So a lot of people
must show up that way,
though they desire them.
>> COLTER: Everybody
has intuition.
It is a hardwired human trait.
We don't not have
intuition, and sometimes we
know just because we get
a gut feeling, you know?
Or we know what we know because
we know it and all of that.
So it is something
that I believe
is developable in anyone.
I teach a subset of that,
which is the visual intuition--
clairvoyance, which is
a very stigmatized word,
but it just means
seeing clearly--
because I want to see
into the physiology.
I want to see down to
the cellular level.
So that's the skill set that
I teach for this broader
picture of medical intuition.
So those are very
pinpoint skills.
And there's level one, which
is a four-month program, which
is one weekend a
month for four months.
It's an intensive
practicum hours program,
so people have to
do their homework.
And from there, people can go
into the level two program,
which is a five month--
same idea, one weekend a month.
I teach live online on
Zoom, so we get students
from all over the world.
It's wonderful.
And we're growing the
community that way, too,
the worldwide community.
>> REGINA: Yeah,
that's wonderful.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
And that program's-- I would
call it really a one year
program because of the practicum
and the certification that we
offer is a 200
hour certification.
It fits all of the criteria for
correct certification in the US,
which I really wanted to
structure that way so that we
can present ourselves to
not only the medical world,
but also to state
legislative boards
and say this is a legitimate
training and certification
process in a very
specific skill set.
That's something that
the field of energy
biofield work hasn't really
gotten quite together yet.
>> REGINA: Yeah, it's true.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: So let's take it down
to the level of a mom and her
child or whatnot, and they're
not in the healing arts.
They're not in the
medical profession.
What do you think
about people who
develop their own kind
of divination processes?
And I say this--
one of my main mentors in life
was a wild, wild Russian woman
from the Bolshevik Revolution
named Madame Valabhji.
And when she died,
her family said,
please take whatever you
like from her estate,
and I took her famed pendulum
she was given by a radionics
practitioner in
Paris in the '40s.
And she used that
throughout her children's
upbringing to diagnose
allergies to food
and simple things like this.
So where along that
line of thinking
would you suggest the
average person might just
start learning how to
develop through divination
their own intuition with health?
>> COLTER: I love that.
I love that.
Anything like that is of value,
and I can offer another course.
>> REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>> COLTER: I have a
course for everyone,
and it's called The Medical
Intuition for Healing and Self
Care.
>> REGINA: Oh, perfect.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
These are, I would
say, fundamental tools
in medical intuition
where you can develop
that internal visual, so
to speak, for your body,
and for your energy, and
for what works for you.
So I have students that come out
of that workshop, which is now
going to be an online self-study
program, where anyone can learn
how to ground their energy,
how to work with their energy,
and then how to look
inside themselves to see
what's going on.
I mean, the stories that
come out of that workshop
and that program are
hilarious and wonderful.
>> REGINA: That's wonderful.
Well, we're about
out of time, but I
guess one thing I want to take
away here that everybody can do
is look for sources--
I heard you-- look for the
sources of chaos and try to move
away from transform--
stop that.
[LAUGHTER]
>> COLTER: Just stop that.
>> REGINA: Just stop that.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
Well, find out where your
life is out of balance
and find the balance
there because these
are direct lines to physical,
emotional, mental, spiritual
health.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> COLTER: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And
breathe before eating.
Make it a little bit of
a more sacred process
than just slamming it down while
you're checking your email.
>> COLTER: That's a
great piece of advice.
[LAUGHTER]
>> REGINA: Wendie,
thank you so much,
and I'll be looking forward
to hearing how this new study
that's underway is going.
>> COLTER: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: Wonderful.
Again, Wendie's book is
titled "Essentials of Medical
Intuition, A Visionary
Path to Wellness."
And you can reach her
through her website,
thepracticalpath.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]